doc: provisioning: Add documentation (#11704)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/networking/nrf_provisioning.rst

.. _lib_nrf_provisioning:

nRF Device provisioning
#######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The nRF Device provisioning library enables a device to connect to Nordic Semiconductor's provisioning Service.

Reviewer: Unsure about the capitalization: Device Provisioning? Neither capitalized?

If we are talking about the cloud-side provisioning service, I believe the name will be nRF Cloud Provisioning Service, part of nRF Cloud Security Services. I can check with PMT.

Author: Please check the correct name.

Reviewer: Just to check, the service we're talking about here _is_ the Cloud service?

Author: Yes, the Cloud service

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_RX_BUF_SZ` - HTTP response payload buffer size
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_TX_BUF_SZ` - HTTP request body size
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_JWT` - Chooses JWT token for client authentication
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_ATTESTTOKEN` - Chooses attestation token for client authentication

.. _lib_nrf_provisioning_start:

Usage
*****

The usage of the nRF Device provisioning library is described in the following sections.

Initialization
==============

Once initialized, the provisioning client will run on its own in the background.
The provisioning client can be initialized in following two ways:

* The application calls :c:func:`nrf_provisioning_init` which starts the client.
* Set the client to initialize during Zephyr's system initialization phase.
  In this case it is assumed that a network connection has been established in the same phase.

The function uses the following two arguments:

*  A pointer to a callback function which is to be called on modem state changes.
*  A pointer that must be called once provisioning is done.

> If you provide ``null`` as a callback function address argument, a corresponding default callback used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you provide ``null`` as a callback function address argument, a corresponding default callback is used.
```

> Consequent calls to the initialization function will only change the callback functions.

Author: Yes, if the initialization function is called again only callback functions are changed.

By default, when provisioning is done after receiving the ``FINISHED`` command, the device is rebooted.
The behavior can be overwritten by providing a unique callback function for the initialization function.

If anything is written on the modem's non-volatile memory, the modem needs to be set in offline mode.
This is because the modem cannot be connected when any data is to be written on to its storage area.
After the memory write is completed, the aforementioned callback function must be called again to set the modem in desired state.
To use the default implementation, ``NULL`` can be passed as an argument to the :c:func:`nrf_provisioning_init` function.
The default callback function must be copied and modified based on your needs if it is necessary.

The library starts provisioning when it initializes and afterwards it is done in a configured interval.
The interval is read from the storage settings, and it can be updated with a provisioning command like any other key-value pair.

During provisioning, the library first tries to establish the transport for communicating with the service.
This procedure involves a TLS handshake where the client establishes the correct server.

> The server uses the attestation token or the JWT token generated by the device for authenticating the client.

Reviewer: Cloud-side docs on attestation tokens and the Identity Service will be available next week.

See :ref:`lib_modem_attest_token` and :ref:`lib_modem_jwt` for more information on client authentication.

The TLS handshake needs to be done twice:

* Before requesting commands
* After the execution of the commands to report the results.

The library shuts down the modem for writing data to the modem's non-volatile memory, if `AT commands <AT Commands Reference Guide_>`_ are involved.

> Once the memory writes are complete, connection is re-established to report the results back to the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the memory writes are complete, the connection is re-established to report the results back to the server.
```

The results are reported back to the server when either all the commands succeed or when an error occurs.
If an error occurs, the results of all the commands that are successfully executed before the error and the erroneous result are reported back to the server.

> All successfully executed commands will be removed from the server-side queue, but if any errors occur, the erroneous command and all the remaining unexecuted commands will be flushed from the queue.

Reviewer: We need to be careful to distinguish this from the provisioning configuration for a claimed device in nRF Cloud: these are, as I understand, the commands we're talking about here.

On the Cloud side, the commands form the *provisioining configuration*, and the configuration remains in the interface and the service's data about the device until the commands are deleted by the user. 

If this is some queue in the network, I'd like that to be a little clearer.

Author: Yes, we are talking about the provisioning configuration here.

Reviewer 2: > All successfully executed commands will be removed from the server-side queue, but if any errors occur, the erroneous command and all the remaining unexecuted commands will be flushed from the queue.

Just to be clear whether you are describing server functionality or device functionality, the removal from the queue and flushing of the queue are done on the server side, not on the device side in this library, correct?

You will be notified on the log about the issue.

An immediate provisioning can be requested by calling the :c:func:`nrf_provisioning_trigger_manually` function.
Otherwise, the library provision according to the set interval.
To trigger immediate provisioning, the library must be initialized first.

The following message sequence chart shows a successful provisioning sequence:

.. msc::

>    hscale = "1.1";

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   hscale = "1.5";
```
Increased the scale size since the label is overlapping the arrow.

   Owner,Server,Device;
   Owner>>Server     [label="Provision: cmd1, cmd2, finished"];
   Server<<Device    [label="Get commands"];
   Server>>Device    [label="Return commands"];
   Device box Device [label="Decode commands"];
   Device box Device [label="Put modem offline"];
   Device box Device [label="Write to non-volatile memory"];
   Device box Device [label="Restore modem state"];
   Server<<Device    [label="cmd1,cmd2, finished succeeded"];

The following message sequence chart shows a failing provisioning sequence:

.. msc::

>    hscale = "1.3";

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   hscale = "1.5";
```
Increased the scale size since the label is overlapping the arrow.

   Owner,Server,Device;
   Owner>>Server     [label="Provision: cmd1, cmd2, cmd3, finished"];
   Server<<Device    [label="Get commands"];
   Server>>Device    [label="Return commands"];
   Device box Device [label="Decode commands"];
   Device box Device [label="Put modem offline"];
   Device box Device [label="cmd1: Write to non-volatile memory"];
   Device box Device [label="cmd2: Fails"];
   Device box Device [label="Restore modem state"];
   Server<<Device    [label="cmd1 success, cmd2 failed"];
   Server>>Server    [label="Empty the command queue"];
   Server>>Owner     [label="cmd2 failed"];

.. _nrf_provisioning_shell:

nRF Provisioning shell
**********************

For testing the client, it is possible to enable Zephyr's shell and provisioning command, which makes it possible to control the client over UART.

> Currently, only the supported subcommand makes it possible to trigger provisioning immediately.

Author: I removed the sentence. There is now more commands available for testing.

The feature is enabled by selecting :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_SHELL`.

> The shell is meant for testing so production systems must not enable it.

Reviewer 4: Every sentence on a separate line.

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_ROOT_CA_SEC_TAG` - Root CA security tag for the Provisioning Service
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_HOSTNAME` - HTTP API hostname for the Provisioning Service
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_PORT` - Port number for the Provisioning Service
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_TIMEOUT_MS` - Timeout in milliseconds for HTTP connection of the Provisioning Service
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_RX_BUF_SZ` - HTTP response payload buffer size
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_TX_BUF_SZ` - HTTP request body size
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_JWT` - Chooses JWT token for client authentication
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_HTTP_ATTESTTOKEN` - Chooses attestation token for client authentication

.. _lib_nrf_provisioning_start:

Usage
*****

The usage of the nRF Device provisioning library is described in the following sections.

Initialization
==============

Once initialized, the provisioning client will run on its own in the background.
The provisioning client can be initialized in following two ways:

> * The application calls :c:func:`nrf_provisioning_init` which starts the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The application calls :c:func:`nrf_provisioning_init`, which starts the client.
```

* Set the client to initialize during Zephyr's system initialization phase.
  In this case, it is assumed that a network connection has been established in the same phase.

The function uses the following two arguments:

*  A pointer to a callback function, which is called when the modem state changes.
*  A pointer that must be called once provisioning is done.

If you provide ``null`` as a callback function address argument, a corresponding default callback is used.
Subsequent calls to the initialization function will only change the callback functions.
This behavior is beneficial when the client has been initialized during the system initialization phase, but the application wants to register its own callback functions afterwards.

Provisioning
============

By default, when provisioning is done after receiving the ``FINISHED`` command, the device is rebooted.
The behavior can be overwritten by providing a unique callback function for the initialization function.

If anything is written to the modem's non-volatile memory, the modem needs to be set in offline mode.

> This is because the modem cannot be connected when any data is to be written to its storage area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because the modem cannot be connected while any data is being written to its storage area.
```

> After the memory write is completed, the aforementioned callback function must be called again to set the modem to the desired state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the memory write is complete, the aforementioned callback function must be called again to set the modem to the desired state.
```

To use the default implementation, ``NULL`` can be passed as an argument to the :c:func:`nrf_provisioning_init` function.
Copy and modify the default callback function as necessary.

> The library starts provisioning when it initializes and afterwards it is done at the configured interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library starts provisioning when it initializes, then according to the configured interval.
```

The interval is read from the storage settings and can be updated with a provisioning command like any other key-value pair.

During provisioning, the library first tries to establish the transport for communicating with the service.
This procedure involves a TLS handshake where the client establishes the correct server.
The server uses the attestation token or JWT generated by the device to authenticate the client.
See :ref:`lib_modem_attest_token` and :ref:`lib_modem_jwt` for more information on client authentication.

> The TLS handshake needs to be done twice:
> 
> * Before requesting commands.
> * After the execution of the commands to report the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TLS handshake happens twice:

* Before requesting commands.
* After the execution of the commands, to report the results.
```

> If you are using `AT commands <AT Commands Reference Guide_>`_ the library shuts down the modem for writing data to the modem's non-volatile memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using `AT commands <AT Commands Reference Guide_>`_ , the library shuts down the modem for writing data to the modem's non-volatile memory.
```

   Server<<Device    [label="Get commands"];
   Server>>Device    [label="Return commands"];
   Device box Device [label="Decode commands"];
   Device box Device [label="Set modem offline"];
   Device box Device [label="Write to non-volatile memory"];
   Device box Device [label="Restore modem state"];
   Server<<Device    [label="cmd1,cmd2, finished succeeded"];

The following message sequence chart shows a failing provisioning sequence:

.. msc::
   hscale = "1.5";
   Owner,Server,Device;
   Owner>>Server     [label="Provision: cmd1, cmd2, cmd3, finished"];
   Server<<Device    [label="Get commands"];
   Server>>Device    [label="Return commands"];
   Device box Device [label="Decode commands"];
   Device box Device [label="Set modem offline"];
   Device box Device [label="cmd1: Write to non-volatile memory"];
   Device box Device [label="cmd2: Fails"];
   Device box Device [label="Restore modem state"];
   Server<<Device    [label="cmd1 success, cmd2 failed"];
   Server>>Server    [label="Empty the command queue"];
   Server>>Owner     [label="cmd2 failed"];

.. _nrf_provisioning_shell:

nRF Provisioning shell
**********************

> For testing the client, it is possible to enable Zephyr's shell and provisioning command, which makes it possible to control the client over UART.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test the client, you can enable Zephyr's shell and provisioning command, which allow you to control the client over UART.
```

The feature is enabled by selecting :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROVISIONING_SHELL`.

> The shell is meant for testing. Do not enable it in production.

Reviewer: If this is for security reasons, I think this should be at least a note.

*  A pointer that must be called once provisioning is done.

If you provide ``null`` as a callback function address argument, a corresponding default callback is used.
Subsequent calls to the initialization function will only change the callback functions.
This behavior is beneficial when the client has been initialized during the system initialization phase, but the application wants to register its own callback functions afterwards.

Provisioning
============

By default, when provisioning is done after receiving the ``FINISHED`` command, the device is rebooted.
The behavior can be overwritten by providing a unique callback function for the initialization function.

If anything is written to the modem's non-volatile memory, the modem needs to be set in offline mode.
This is because the modem cannot be connected while any data is to being written to its storage area.
Once the memory write is complete, the aforementioned callback function must be called again to set the modem to the desired state.
To use the default implementation, ``NULL`` can be passed as an argument to the :c:func:`nrf_provisioning_init` function.
Copy and modify the default callback function as necessary.

> The library starts provisioning when it initializes and, then according to the configured interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library starts provisioning when it initializes, then according to the configured interval.
```

The interval is read from the storage settings and can be updated with a provisioning command like any other key-value pair.

During provisioning, the library first tries to establish the transport for communicating with the service.
This procedure involves a TLS handshake where the client establishes the correct server.
The server uses the attestation token or JWT generated by the device to authenticate the client.
See :ref:`lib_modem_attest_token` and :ref:`lib_modem_jwt` for more information on client authentication.

The TLS handshake happens twice:

* Before requesting commands.
* After the execution of the commands, to report the results.

If you are using `AT commands <AT Commands Reference Guide_>`_, the library shuts down the modem for writing data to the modem's non-volatile memory.
Once the memory writes are complete, the connection is re-established to report the results back to the server.
The results are reported back to the server when either all the commands succeed or when an error occurs.
If an error occurs, the results of all the commands that are successfully executed before the error and the erroneous result are reported back to the server.

> All successfully executed commands will be removed from the server-side queue, but if any errors occur, the erroneous command and all the remaining unexecuted commands will be flushed from the server-side queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All successfully executed commands will be removed from the server-side queue, but if any errors occur, the erroneous command and all the remaining unexecuted commands are removed from the server-side queue.
```
